---
author: philiplebo
comments: true
date: 2011-11-30 20:51:55+00:00
layout: post
link: https://philiplebo.wordpress.com/2011/12/01/why/
slug: why
title: Why
wordpress_id: 318
category: [ blog, travel ]
---

Finals are over. I’ve checked out of my apartment and handed over the keys. My time here at my host school has officially come to an end. My bags are completely packed and stored at a friend’s house until my flight to Texas. I am currently, and will be for the next month, living out of a 40 liter backpack with little more than a few pairs of shorts, a few shirts, and a towel. I don’t even have my laptop with me anymore (hence the lack of pictures in this post). Less than six hours from now I am boarding a plane to Hanoi to begin a seventeen-day journey through Vietnam and Laos.

I’ve wanted to write a blog entry about why I decided to study abroad since the beginning of April, but I just haven’t gotten around to it. It's now the end of the semester, long long after when I had intended to write this post. I’m glad I waited this long, though, because the past months have answered some of my own questions about why I’m here. I know I still haven’t gotten around to my Thailand trip yet, but that will come in due time, I promise.

(Warning: if you thought my last post was dramatic, you ain't seen nothin' yet. the following gets pretty sappy, cheesy, and hopefully at some point insightful.)

At first the question was simply “Why study abroad?” but it quickly evolved into “Why Singapore?” I could give you the cliché answers like “because I wanted to experience new things and gain a global perspective” and while that is completely true, it doesn’t even begin to capture all of the thoughts that have gone through my head in the past months.

Actually, something else I've wanted to do is sort of a "Singapore 101" post to give some of you more an idea of where I've been this past semester. It's a little late for that I suppose, but better late than never, so here we go.

Singapore boasts one of the strongest economies in the world, as well as one of the highest standards of living. Its GDP per capita is generally ranked higher than countries like France, the UK, Germany, and Japan, and is very close to Canada and the United States. Singapore is also the fourth largest financial centre, third largest oil refinery, and the busiest transshipment port in the entire world. Along with being an economic giant, Singapore is also consistently ranked as having one of the best education systems in Asia. The National University of Singapore, where I studied, is considered to be in the top three universities in all of Asia, and has one of the best business schools in the world.

However, in all of my research about Singapore, there was one main theme that saturated every article and every book I read. That theme: Singapore is a place of vast and varying culture. Dare I say it's even more of a melting pot than some parts of America. Singapore is composed of four main demographics, Chinese, Malay, Indian, and Indonesian. These four groups alone are responsible for the most amazing culture of a city I have ever seen. Each group has their own food, their own music, their own clothes, language, and even their own little section of the city that they call home. But each culture also combines with all of the others to form what can only be described as cultural fusion awesomeness.

And along with the four main ethnic groups, Singapore also boasts expats from every corner of the world. Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, The Philippines, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, Australia, America, Russia, every country in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, etc. I can't even begin to list them all. And on top of that? The vast number of exchange students that come to Singapore every semester contribute to an even greater amount of cultures all swirling around on this tiny island nation.

By the way, when I say tiny, I mean it. _The entire country of Singapore is smaller in area than the city of Dallas_, and is only slightly larger than Austin. [Here](http://i.imgur.com/CvXwK.jpg) is a crude size comparison of the two (Singapore is the red blob, and yes, these maps are to scale). But population-wise? While Austin is home to around 700,000 residents and Dallas a hefty 1.2 million, Singapore is home to a staggering **six million people**. The population density of Singapore is six times the density of Dallas. There are people literally everywhere.

(I found [this video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d5FKGiZCvbw) the other night. It’s an Anthony Bourdain show about Singapore, and it’s surprisingly accurate and informative when it comes to representing the city. If you have 45 minutes to waste and feel like learning about where I’ve been living (or you just like travel shows), it’s definitely worth a watch.)

Before I can answer why I chose Singapore, I guess the more important question is why I decided to study abroad at all. I’ve always wanted to study abroad. The truth is, I can’t really give you a reason why. I could tell you that it’s to make my resume look better, that it’s to help me get a better job when I graduate, and that it’s because Singapore offers one of the best educations in the world. I could tell you I came here to study hard and learn finance from some of the greatest professors from the greatest universities the world over. Again, all of this is true, but there is so much more to study abroad than that. There is just so much to see and do in the world. There are so many people to meet, so many cultures to experience, so much food to try, so many sights to see… it’s absolutely amazing, breath-taking, awe-inspiring... I don’t know how else to put it.

Before I left for Singapore, many of my friends would tell me things like “you’re so brave” or “I don’t know how you’re not scared of traveling all by yourself.” But let me tell you a secret: I was absolutely terrified. I don’t think I have ever been more scared of anything in my entire life. For days before my flight, I constantly felt like vomiting and calling the whole thing off.

So why did I do it? Not too long ago I read a quote. Unfortunately I don’t know who said it or the exact wording, but the gist of it was this: “The best way to grow is to find something that terrifies you and just go do it.” So I did.

And I regret absolutely nothing.

This semester has taught me so much. It's taught me about people, about culture, and about the world. It's made me realize just how enormous and full of amazement our world is. It's cliche, and perhaps a little cheesy, but it's true. This semester has inspired me to travel more. It's inspired me to see as much of the world and meet as many people as I possibly can. And not just overseas, either. I'm already planning trips to places like Big Bend, the Grand Canyon, Chicago, and New York. I can't wait. Southeast Asia is just the beginning.

Perhaps one of the main reasons I’ve always wanted to travel is because other cultures fascinate me. I love other languages, I love meeting people, and I love seeing how they live their daily lives. And perhaps one of the most incredible things I have learned so far is that despite how different everyone on this planet might be, despite how vastly different our food, clothes, languages, art, houses, and environments may be, we’re all really the same. We all share the same basic hopes and dreams of fulfilling lives, happy families, and making friends. Every person I have met has been genuinely interested in helping me make my travels as wonderful as can be, even those who at first want nothing but my money. I think most travelers come to places like Indonesia and only expect to be bombarded with hawkers (street vendors) trying to sell you things at exorbitant prices. And they do. I was grabbed by the arm many times on the street and asked to buy a variety of things. It’s annoying, sometimes it can feel dangerous, and I think most travelers harden themselves against such people. I saw many tourists be outright rude to hawkers and shop owners (and honestly, I was rude sometimes as well) just to get them out of their faces.

But some of the most interesting people I have met on this trip have been those very same shopkeeps, drivers, and hotel owners. I had so many interesting conversations with these people just by being kind and polite to them. I met several people that I would literally trust with my life (and several more that I actually did trust with my life) after only dealing with them for a short while. Perhaps I’m naïve, perhaps I’ve been too trusting, and perhaps I’ve only been looking for the best in these people, but I’ve experienced nothing but genuine gratitude and helpfulness.

I’m sure you remember Nyoman from my previous blog entries. He is a perfect example of what I’m talking about. He had absolutely no reason to be kind or welcoming to us. Our first few interactions with him consisted of a rude phone call and a short price negotiation, and yet he welcomed us into his home with open arms. Out of the kindness of his heart, he drove us around the city whenever we needed it. He introduced us to his wife, his mother, his children, his grandchildren, and his friends. He let us play with his adorable little granddaughter and laughed as his dog, Akwa, ran to my side for a belly rub. I would like to think that he enjoyed our company just as much as we enjoyed his.

So why am I studying abroad? Here I am, three weeks from returning home, and I’m sorry to tell you that I still cannot give you a clear answer. I’m in it for the food, for the sights, and for the people. I’m here for some of the best friends I have ever met. I’m here to learn about things I never even knew existed. But even with all of that said, there is still so much more that I can’t begin to describe.

A little while ago I got mad at myself for not taking better advantage of the ample travel time that my four-day weekends allowed for. I was flipping through my passport and realized that I hardly had any stamps in it. There are more than 15 countries within a four hour flight from Singapore, and I've only been to six of them. I had expected to have gone to many, many more places.

But then I realized that, to me at least, that wasn’t important. I realized that when all is said and done, my travels will not be measured by the amount of stamps in my passport, the pictures I have taken, or the monuments I’ve seen. No, my travels will be measured by the lessons learned, friendships formed, and lives changed. And by those measurements, I am proud to say that this semester has been the best semester of my life.

--

As I’ve been writing this blog, I started asking myself what the point of it is. Why am I writing this? Why did I just sit down and type for two hours about what I did this week? Originally I thought it was a good way to let all of my friends and family know what I’m doing while I’m here. Then I realized that most people probably didn’t care and my blog better served as a personal journal to look back on years from now and reminisce about my journeys. But now I think I’ve found another purpose for it.

I am fully aware that sometimes my blog posts, tweets, Facebook statuses and pictures seem like I am bragging about the amazing opportunities I have here. I know that some people feel that I am being a jerk when I express how great of a time I’m having while abroad. And I’m sorry about that. I’m sorry if I come off as rude, arrogant, or boastful.

But if any of my stories, statuses, or pictures seem like they are meant to make you jealous, it’s because they kind of are. The past few months have included some of the most rewarding experiences of my life. I want to share every single moment of it with everyone I know. But more than that, I want everyone to experience it for themselves. If my travels in any way serve as inspiration for someone else to embark on their own travels, no matter the destination or purpose, I’ll be happier than you can imagine.

And look, I know that I’m just a 20-year old student with a few minor countries under my belt. I know that I’ve been blessed beyond imagination to have the opportunity to study abroad this semester. I understand that not everyone has the chance to travel like I have. So maybe my advice is worth next to nothing to you. Maybe you’re even scoffing at me while you read this.

But if you’re not, then I just want to tell you that if you want to go somewhere, just do it. If you really want it bad enough, you won’t let anything stop you. And I guarantee that it will be worth it.

--

I’ll end this spiel of word throw-up by sharing with you [one of my favorite TV shows](http://www.youtube.com/user/DeparturesTelevision#p/c/5C9216776B0CF623/0/7DYEGAGzo00). I discovered this travel show over the summer, and it has been one of the major reasons why I decided to go on the several trips I did. It pumps me up every time I watch an episode. It’s a fantastic show, and again, if you have any interest in traveling then I really think you should check it out.

Anyway, I’m off to Vietnam and Laos. Then it’s back to Singapore for a few days before I begin another arduous 30+ hour trip across the Pacific. But this time, I’ll be coming home.

See you soon.


